Hello!

This is the lesson #2 of the free Web3 tutorial.

Smart contracts on Ethereum.

The success of Bitcoin inspired developers and enthusiasts around the world, some of them dedicated themselves to Bitcoin - maintain and improve its network, others gathered in teams and implement their ideas.

One of these teams was assembled by a developer of Canadian-Russian origin Vitalik Buterin - the Ethereum project became an entire ecosystem and made another revolution in the crypto world.

Ethereum has taken the very best of bitcoin - blockchain and encryption - and added a few technological solutions. Decentralization, open source code (any person can check the integrity of the network and offer their own improvements) is also under the hood of Ether.

Ethereum created a machine capable of making a decision based on whether certain conditions are met or not - smart contracts (Smart-contract). Thanks to this technology, a huge number of new directions in cryptocurrencies have appeared, for example, NFT and DeFi (Decentralized Finance).

Ethereum has become a real testing ground for crypto projects.

In Ethereum, as in Bitcoin, there is a unit - ETH, which can be sent and received. But there are also special tokens created through a smart contract and having their own unique number. A smart contract allows users to conduct transactions without the participation of third parties. The contract can include any conditions and various scenarios for its execution.

Each interaction with a contract is a transaction that is entered into the blockchain. The user pays a fee to the miners for the calculations they make confirming the transaction. This is called a gas fee - the more complex the transaction, the more gas will be required to process it.

In any blockchain network, your account is a wallet, and your individual address identifies you to the network. Contracts cannot be changed or canceled because they are written on the blockchain.

Let's look at the example of an artist in NFT

An artist wants to turn his digital art into an NFT token on the Ethereum network. He enters his art into the blockchain, pays a commission for it. An NFT appears on the artist’s wallet, and a corresponding record of the creation of the token appears in the blockchain.

The artist can set conditions that the art will be sold if one of the users offers 1ETH. As soon as someone bids 1ETH, the smart contract is executed and the digital asset is sent to the buyer’s wallet, and the transaction is recorded on the blockchain.

NFTs can be sold or donated, and each move will be permanently entered into the blockchain, as will the wallet address of its creator.

This NFT can be anything: a digital document, a pledge letter, a key to gated communities, an item in a game, an avatar, or a piece of land in the metaverse.

Ethereum has created standards and tools for the emergence of decentralized applications and entire ecosystems and metaverses.

At the moment, most of the crypto projects are made on the basis of Ethereum.