Hello!

This is the lesson #5 of the free Web3 tutorial.

Where to buy cryptocurrency?

But before we get to that point, there are a few things to be clear:

    Cryptocurrency is a high-risk asset with high volatility (the price can change a lot in a short time).
    The price of assets is formed on a market basis. If demand exceeds supply, the price rises and vice versa.
    No one, absolutely no one, can predict where the price will go. Cryptocurrency traders work with probabilities and always calculate the risk/reward ratio. Trading is not a lottery, but hard work that requires a lot of time. Of the total number of players on the market, only a small percentage is successful. Even the best traders have losing days and months.
    The less popular an asset is, the easier it is for large players to manipulate the price of this asset. Bitcoin is considered the gold of cryptocurrencies, it accounts for most of the money in the crypto market. More often than not, if btc falls or rises, the rest of the crypto market follows.
    If someone promises you a guaranteed profit, most likely it is an unscrupulous person.
    Even the best analysts can make mistakes, always check and do your own analysis of the asset.
    No ALL IN. This is not a casino. Never invest last or borrowed money. Even if you are confident in the prospects of the asset. Invest the amount you are willing to lose.
    Purchase conditions and tax reporting are separate for each country. Learn the laws related to cryptocurrencies in your area.

ex2

So, we took into account all these factors and decided to buy cryptocurrency.

Now there are many services that support the official purchase of cryptocurrency. For example, PayPal users have this opportunity, you can also purchase cryptocurrency directly in the metamask and trust wallet, the principle of operation is the same as when buying any product on the Internet. This way of buying is also available on all major crypto exchanges.

Unfortunately, this method is temporarily unavailable for the Russian Federation.

But it's really not that big of a problem.

After all, conducting transactions between participants who do not trust each other is one of the main purposes of cryptocurrency. This is called P2P (peer-to-peer - "equal to equal") or OTC (Over The Counter) - an over-the-counter transaction.

This is the direct buying and selling of cryptocurrencies by users without the involvement of a third party or intermediary. That is, users negotiate among themselves the details of the transaction, and the cryptocurrency exchange or trustee acts as a guarantor.
ex3

For example, on one of the exchanges in the P2P section, user "A" creates an announcement that he is ready to sell USDT at a price of 60 rubles from Sberbank (example) for 1 USDT, in the details of the transaction he indicates the payment details. User "B" wants to purchase 100 USDT, he agrees to the terms and accepts this transaction. After the consent of user "A", user "B" receives payment details, now he needs to transfer 6,000 rubles. When user "A" confirms the receipt of 6000 rubles, 100 USDT is transferred to the wallet of user "B".

The funds involved in the transaction are frozen for the duration of the transaction, if for some reason there are disagreements, a moderator connects to the transaction and resolves the situation based on the facts provided by the users.

The system of such transactions takes into account all the possible tricks and deceptions that users can go for. If you follow the terms of the deal, there will be no problems.

As a rule, it is more profitable to buy cryptocurrency through p2p, and most transactions go through this way.
ex4

Another option is exchangers. These are special services that deal with the exchange of cryptocurrency. The transaction mechanics are often similar to P2P.

In Russia, there is an aggregator of exchangers https://www.bestchange.ru/

It monitors rates and available payment methods in real time. This service includes only proven services that make an insurance deposit. Each exchanger on this resource has a branch with all the information, as well as user comments.

Modern cryptocurrency exchanges have a huge functionality, but at this stage, we are interested in p2p and spot trading.

Spot is your wallet inside the exchange where you can buy, sell and store a variety of crypto assets. It is there that you can buy cryptocurrency at the best price.

Exchange interfaces are often similar and adaptive. At almost all major exchanges, you will need to go through the KYC procedure - to verify your identity.

Exchanges are a convenient tool, but still, in order to fully own your crypto assets, you should withdraw them to your own wallet.

The current TOP crypto-exchanges can be viewed on coinmarketcap in the Exchange section:
Exchange

That's all.