This is the thirteenth lesson of the free Web3 tutorial

DAO V2

At the time of creation, the DAO chooses one of two management options, which determines the vector of future development:

Prescriptive. The creators of the project set the rules, the community agrees with them and observes them. Management takes place in a decentralized manner by all participants, but proposals cannot contradict the initially set rules.

Descriptive. There are no rules of the game, all decisions are in the power of the community, users themselves choose the criteria by which the DAO functions.

Next, the project should decide on the type of management within the DAO, which can be divided into two main subspecies:

1. Direct democracy - any DAO user can put forward any proposal, decisions are made by voting.

2. Representative democracy - the community elects representatives - process managers, while DAO users have the opportunity to veto any proposal of representatives.

We have analyzed successful DAO projects and identified several types of organizations that are already successfully functioning. This does not mean that all DAOs should be exactly like this, this technology can be successfully used in absolutely other industries.

Which DAOs already exist?

Investor: A group of people that creates an organization with the purpose of investing in projects. Determined with the rules, the entry threshold. In fact, it is an investment fund that is managed by the community. For ordinary users of cryptocurrencies, it is worth keeping an eye on similar DAOs and projects in which they invest, you can often find very promising projects among them.

Protocol: The team creates and launches the product. Basically, this is a decentralized application (mainly cryptocurrencies/loans). A project token is issued, users decide what percentage and commission they set for using their portocol.

Project: These are projects that make a certain product that brings profit. Users invest in the company through tokens, participate in decision-making, and also receive a percentage of the project's profits. In fact, such DAOs are analogous to a security.

Curator: This kind of DAO is similar to investors, but the main subject of their investments is art, and in particular NFT art and collections. It is useful for crypto users to follow similar DAOs, projects in which they invest and interact in order to understand the trends of the NFT market.

Community: In this kind of DAO, users unite around a common idea - it can be cultural, social, human rights, political, charitable, educational, etc. Such communities usually have a global goal that the project is moving towards.

Creator: Such communities are built around a certain person, usually an artist who has fans of his art, users support their author, join his works, this is a kind of decentralized fan club.

Guilds: This is a community of people, usually freelancers, each of whom has some useful skill for the community (programming, design, modeling, etc.). They perform tasks for other projects and earn money from their services.
IMG_0863

In this letter, we described the main DAO projects that exist at the moment. The range of applications of this technology is very extensive, and how to use it is limited only by our imagination.

The main trends that the DAO sets are honesty, openness, fairness and initiative. In general, the development of the Internet is moving towards the value of a particular user.

All the DAOs that we have listed are open to suggestions and criticism, if you offer the best solution to their problem, you will definitely be thanked.

We hope that you were interested, and we all became a little closer to the new Internet, built with the direct participation and respect for the interests of all users.