Hello!

This is the lesson #1 of the free Web3 tutorial.

And today we will analyze the loudest innovation in the financial sector in recent years - cryptocurrency.

Since the advent of the Internet, many people, software developers, mathematicians and enthusiasts have been solving the problem of creating virtual money. And only at the end of 2008, a mysterious person (or group of people) under the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto published a document (White paper), which contained the concept and instructions for using the Bitcoin cryptocurrency.

Already on January 3, 2009, the concept came to life - the bitcoin network was launched. Despite numerous journalistic investigations, it is still unknown who is the creator of bitcoin. And conversations about cryptocurrencies are no longer only in social networks and on forums, but also in the largest financial organizations in the world, as well as in the governments of many countries.

What is Bitcoin?

This is the first and most famous of the many cryptocurrencies. And also the monetary unit of the same name, capable of being divided into tenths, hundredths, thousandths (and so on) parts - the exchange name BTC. You can send and receive both 1 integer and 0.1, 0.001, 0.0001 btc.

Bitcoin has a limited number of coins and a pre-programmed, predetermined schedule for their creation, a total of 21 million coins can be issued.

New bitcoins enter circulation as a reward for those who perform computational operations (which ensure the transmission of transactions) and securely encrypt information.

This process, which has become an entire industry, is called mining.

Bitcoin is often referred to as digital gold, as its reserves are limited, and special equipment is needed to mine it.

Information about each transaction is entered into the so-called block, which is generated by miners every 10 minutes. Each new block stores data about the previous one, a complete list of all blocks is stored simultaneously in millions of copies by all network participants, information about each transaction is entered into the block forever and is open to everyone.

Thus, the network is decentralized and secure. No one can make changes, cancel or replace the transaction, as this would require hacking millions of computers around the world at the same time (which is impossible). With each new block, the complexity of the calculation increases and the reward decreases, due to which the value of bitcoin increases.

What we have?

A decentralized currency that is not controlled by anyone, all algorithms of which are mathematically confirmed.

Completely transparent calculations available to every user.

Your only personal digital money that cannot be taken away, frozen or changed.

A means of payment available to everyone, because absolutely any user can create a wallet, and every day the number of stores and services that accept btc for payment is only growing.

Not bad for a start, huh?